Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
I think every kid grows up
wanting to be a superhero.
You put the towel
around your neck
and you run around
the living room.
I think every kid
wanted to swoop in
and help people
once in a while.
And at least for me,
what's happened is I became
addicted to the idea.
An FBI car came
flying up the sidewalk,
and they all converged
on me at once.
They handcuffed me
and seized my computers.
They had all the evidence
they needed,
but I never harmed a soul.
I've never done anything
besides touch my fingers
to my computer
and seek freedom and justice.
In a perfect world,
heroes protect us
from bad guys.
Laws protect us
from criminals.
But this is not
a perfect world.
Today's crusaders and
vigilantes
hide behind user names,
and search for clues
in the digital trails
we all leave behind.
Who's to judge?
Is there justice?
Can there be justice?
I suppose it's possible
if people stopped letting
their emotions rule.
But people don't know
how to do that.
I don't know, maybe it's
the hunters in us,
smelling the fear
in the prey or something,
looking for blood.
54-year-old Myra
is a mother of five
and a grandmother of six.
She's also kind of a badass.
I am a bouncer
at a night club,
and I also teach self-defense.
I don't like seeing people
being picked on.
being abused.
It really bothers me,
and I'll step in every time.
My father was an investigator
for the Public Defender's
office in Sacramento,
and he'd tell me
his latest stories,
his latest investigations.
My father discovered
that the system
isn't quite as perfect
as people want
to believe it is.
There's a lot of
innocent people in jail,
and probably a lot of guilty
people out of jail, as well.
So his cases
were fascinating to me.
There was that little tickle
in the back of my brain saying,
"I want answers."
Piecing together
the clues, seeking justice.
It's an impulse that's
brought Myra to Websleuths,
the biggest
true-crime forum online.
Here, more than
100,000 active users
become amateur detectives,
sifting through 250,000
plus threads
on cold-case murders
and kidnapped children.
You get sucked in,
and sometimes you find things
that you never
would have imagined.
One day, a story came up,
and it was about
this 20-year-old girl
named Morgan Ingram.
She was young,
she was pretty,
and her parents believed
she was being stalked.
They had wildlife cameras
posted around their house,
and they caught an image
of this person
standing in the driveway.
There were lights tripping,
rocks hitting the window.
At one point, they claimed
that shoeprints were found
underneath the bathroom window.
The stalking supposedly
went on for months,
and the police
tried their hardest
to figure out
what was going on,
but they never
did catch anybody.
And then one morning,
they woke up,
and Morgan had died.
They had found her dead
in her room,
and it just absolutely
breaks your heart.
The people who knew her talked
about how she was funny,
how she was intelligent
and artistic.
Now her art, her pictures,
her friendships, her loves...
gone, wiped out.
Her mother had come
on Websleuths asking for help
in solving this crime,
and a lot of us are moms
on that board.
And we felt like Morgan
could have been our daughter.
So we all dove in.
We were gonna get this guy.
The Internet has unleashed
legions of DIY detectives,
and they're casing
the network for suspects.
Stand accused online,
and it's your innocence
that you have to prove.
There were so many accusations
that I can't even
remember all of them.
Basically that I just had
to pick this girl out,
and that I got some kind
of sick kick
out of ruining her life.
And I don't even know
this girl.
In 2011,
Keenan was 18 years old,
a night-shift manager
at a local grocery store,
when he moved in
with his girlfriend
down the street
from Morgan Ingram
and her parents,
Toni and Steve.
I honestly have no idea
why they picked me out.
I'm assuming it's 'cause
I work nights
and they were seeing a car drive
through the neighborhood
at random times.
The police would pull me over
or just follow me.
A couple times,
cops actually held, like,
interrogations with me.
And that's when they told me,
"There's a case going on
at that house,
and you're one
of our top suspects."
It's like, "What am I going
to have to do to prove
there's no possible way
I could have done this?"
Online, there may
be no escaping judgment.
Sometimes, your only hope
is to try to stay anonymous.
Ladies and gentlemen,
in preparation for landing,
please make sure your seatbelt
is securely fastened.
Once they find out
that this meeting
is taking place,
you will come on the radar
of U.S. law enforcement
and quite possibly
U.S. intelligence.
They will try to find out
where you went by tracing
your electronic footprint.
And so we can't talk
about the details of how
we come to be together
in this motel room,
because that would
be information
that they would use
against us.
Where we're sitting right now,
we're in a foreign country,
you know.
The United States
has no writ here,
and that's just tough shit
for them, isn't it?
In a room
booked under another name,
in a city that can't be
identified,
Commander X is hiding out.
If I'm standing up for you,
then I'm certainly
not scary at all.
If you're the target,
however,
then I guess
I'm a cyber terrorist.
It really is a matter
of perspective.
Greetings,
people of the world.
Allow me to introduce myself
as Anonymous.
X is in league
with Anonymous,
the Internet collective
notorious for cyber anarchy,
for trolling and pranking
the establishment,
and defacing their websites.
But X is another breed
of Anon...
A hacktivist, leaking data
and breaching networks
for a higher purpose.
I've been
a protestor for 35 years,
an activist for 35 years.
When I see tyrants
crushing people
and messing with people
and destroying their lives...
that's a motherfucking problem.
Okay, that's a big problem
for somebody like me.
We always had the power
as hackers
to affect change.
So when I deal
with activists in Egypt
and Tunisia
and Black Lives Matter,
I'm able to bring them
technological expertise.
I can tell them
how to live stream
their protests to the world.
If you ask those people
who they feel safer about...
Their government,
their police or us,
those people will tell you,
this is what makes
them feel safe.
This is what makes them
feel empowered.
X's intentions might be noble,
but going after governments
and corporations
online can bring down
real-world consequences.
There's a major takedown in
the war against computer crime.
Authorities in the United States
and Europe
just rounded up
some alleged hackers.
14 people across
the country now under arrest,
accused of being members
of a hacking group
called Anonymous.
These arrests should
send a clear message,
that we're not playing
around anymore.
When a hacker's in trouble,
who helps him make his case?
There was
a rebel streak in my soul
from day one.
I saw the Grateful Dead
164 times.
Not only did I always want
to be a lawyer,
but I always wanted to be
a criminal defense lawyer.
That's the essence, to me,
of freedom of liberty...
Making sure that the state
doesn't crush the individual.
Attorneys are
supposed to defend the law.
Jay Leiderman wants
to give it an upgrade.
My private
practice started in 2006.
You know, good old
garden-variety drugs,
theft, violence,
what have you.
When I first learned about
hacktivism, it spoke to me.
These guys are protesting
state-sponsored censorship,
government oppression.
Things that I care about.
The least I can do
is give them some backing.
Jay is known
as "the hacker's attorney."
In his office and on his phone,
he keeps an encrypted
chat line open,
dispensing pro bono legal
advice to hackers in need.
A lot of times, I don't know
who I'm talking to.
I don't know where they are.
All of a sudden,
someone direct messages me.
And they were like, "Hey.
I've just hacked
the whole country of Sweden.
What do I do?"
You can make the argument
that taking websites offline
for weeks on end,
or leaving a website
a smoking crater in cyberspace
that's evil hacking.
But, you know,
a lot of the time,
small-scale defaces of websites,
blocking web traffic
those should be considered
a legitimate form of protest,
and a legitimate form
of free speech.
But if you're the government,
it just doesn't work that way.
I thought I'd just
have a normal life for life.
Working all the time,
getting a family.
Doing the same thing
everybody else does.
I've had some run-in
with law enforcement...
A marijuana charge
when I was younger.
Speeding tickets,
couple of those.
And that's pretty much it.
That changed
in August of 2011,
when Keenan was accused
of stalking Morgan Ingram
three months before
she was found dead.
The police scrutinized
his every move,
but the data was
on Keenan's side.
At the grocery store,
we had
the fingerprint scanner...
Your own private number
you had to punch in,
with fingerprint recognition.
Otherwise, it wouldn't
let you clock in.
The store has 54 cameras,
good cameras.
And the Ingrams would
call the cops and say,
"He's outside my house,"
or whatever,
while they had me on video
stocking the shelves.
The night that Morgan died,
that's one of the nights
that the police
really looked into,
at the cameras
and all that stuff.
And they... they realized
that I wasn't behind any of it.
The coroner ruled
Morgan's death a suicide
by overdose of
the painkiller amitriptyline,
and the police
closed the case.
But online, the trial
was just getting started.
Toni Ingram believed
that her daughter
had been murdered.
So she started this blog,
almost like a diary,
day by day
following the stalking
and the eventual death
of her daughter.
It was a major hit.
It almost went viral.
And as Toni's
producing this blog,
her beliefs about
what happened started
getting more
and more outlandish.
Whoever had killed Morgan,
according to Toni,
broke into the house,
made her drink
liquid amitriptyline,
waited several hours
for it to kill her,
at some point raped her,
redressed her,
and then crept
out of the house.
I realized that
Toni was grieving
and that this was her way
of grieving,
that she had to tell her story.
But when she started
naming Keenan,
saying he was responsible
for the murder of her daughter,
we're like, ""
I mean, freedom of speech
does not allow you
to blame people for something
that they didn't do.
Online,
anyone can play judge,
jury, and executioner.
But isn't that what we love
about the Internet,
that everyone can
speak their mind?
After all,
it's a free country... right?
One of the issues
for people who call me
is that the penalties
for computer crimes
are so out of whack
with penalties
for regular crimes.
And that involves
congress itself.
Your average congressperson
is like a 60-, 70-,
110-year-old white man,
and they are scared
to death of hackers
because they don't understand.
And what we don't
understand, we fear.
Faced with a threat,
the government passes a law...
The Computer Fraud
and Abuse Act, or CFAA,
prohibiting unauthorized access
to a computer or server.
The law tries to go after
people who are hacking things
involving national security,
banks, things like that,
but as the years roll by,
the courts have
expanded the definitions
to the point where
anything now constitutes
unauthorized access.
This is
a peaceful protest!
Think of this analogy...
Let's say 60 people
go into Bank of America
and just sit down.
What are they going to get,
$250 fine, 5 days in jail?
If you do a DDoS,
which is a digital sit-in,
it's a federal crime.
It's a federal felony.
It's a, you know,
it's a big deal.
DDoS...
Distributed Denial of Service.
A group gathers online,
and in a coordinated strike,
sends data packets
to a specific website,
temporarily crashing it
with an overload
of information.
A series of cyber attacks
made dozens of popular websites
inaccessible today.
Tens of millions
couldn't check
their banking accounts
or log on to local news.
Recently,
hackers made headlines
by cutting off access
to Twitter,
Amazon, Reddit, Spotify,
and banking sites.
But six years ago,
Commander X and over
200 fellow hacktivists
repurposed DDoS for protests.
Their target
was the main page
of the Santa Cruz
county government.
Santa Cruz county
has a history
of militant gentrification
to rid themselves
of homeless people.
It's actually against the law
to sit on a park bench
for more than one hour,
and you can't cover yourself
with a blanket
during certain hours of
the night anywhere in public.
And so, that was
the motivation of the attack.
We met in the chat room,
and each of us pulled out
whatever choice of DDoS weapon.
And at exactly noon, we fired,
and the site crashed.
At the 30-minute mark,
I asked everybody to stop.
It took less than
2 minutes for the website
to return to normal function,
and that was it.
No servers were breached,
no data was stolen.
It's a small, crowdsourced act
of civil disobedience.
So none of us took
any kind of precautions
to hide our traffic,
to encrypt our chats.
We were honestly as naive
as you could possibly get.
Nine months later,
X was cornered
by FBI agents
outside a coffee shop.
He and another hacktivist
were the only ones
arrested in the DDoS.
The indictment
listed X's charges...
Conspiracy and unauthorized
access of a computer.
Because of the
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act,
X would be facing
a total of 15 years,
plus, just for good measure,
a $500,000 fine
on top of that.
Sounds reasonable, right?
It's unjust to take
that many years
of my life
away from me for protest.
I was out on federal bail,
and I had to think very quickly.
I hiked up into
the Santa Cruz mountains.
After that, it was a series of
safe houses and transportation.
I crossed over from Washington
state into British Columbia,
and then I was in Canada.
So from my perspective,
I'm a political exile.
But according to the U.S.
Department of Justice,
I'm a fugitive.
It makes you feel like
there's two different kinds
of justice.
There's the cops and the courts
that closed the case,
but then on the Internet,
the facts don't always matter.
When the story started
spreading online,
I started getting
hundreds of messages
through Facebook,
like, per day.
From Canada, Europe,
Africa, South America.
Just from people
telling me their opinion.
They started coming in worse
and worse and worse.
Makes you feel helpless,
feel bad about yourself.
The worst part
was hurting my family.
When I read
some of the things, I said,
"This isn't my son.
This isn't him.
This isn't the kind
of person he is."
And I did try to make
some comments to that effect,
to help him.
But on Toni's blog
or website,
all comments are filtered.
So if she doesn't like it,
it never shows up.
It's just gone.
And it's not just one website
accusing him, there's many.
The one blog rapidly
escalated into multiple blogs.
They seem to just pop up.
We don't even know
who's behind them.
We talked to law
enforcement and lawyers,
even FBI, stuff like that.
And without tens
of thousands of dollars,
there's nothing you can do.
People can say
whatever they want.
I'll have
the mushroom Swiss burger.
-All right.
-Thank you.
As a parent,
you're wondering, worrying.
You know, what's in his mind?
How is he handling this?
Because you don't know...
You want to fix it.
And you can't.
That's the frustration.
There's just nothing...
There's nothing you can do.
There was nights
that I would cry,
just not knowing
what to do at all, ever.
Giving up has crossed my mind.
Just dying, going away.
Didn't really seem like
such a bad option.
To be hounded
by anonymous accusers
brandishing digital pitchforks,
exposing your name,
your face, your family...
it's happened before.
April 2013, three days after
the Boston Marathon bombing,
the FBI released surveillance
footage from the scene,
inspiring millions of users
on Reddit
and Twitter to launch
a crowdsourced manhunt.
One user I.D.'d the perpetrator
as former classmate
Sunil Tripathi,
who'd gone missing
in Rhode Island
a month earlier.
And the hunch set off a frenzy.
Sleuths harassed and
threatened Sunil's family,
until it was discovered
that Sunil had
committed suicide
before the bombing had
even taken place.
I think online,
people become so detached
from the realities of the lives
that they're touching
that they don't... it's like
a TV show, maybe, to them?
So, let's say Keenan decided
to go to college,
or maybe he met a woman
that he really loved.
And people do background
searches now.
I mean, what was going
to pop up?
He's a rapist, he's a murderer.
We knew that this man's life
was basically gonna be ruined
if we didn't do anything.
So a group of us left Websleuths
and started our own board
where we could discuss
Morgan's death in private.
We got ahold
of the police reports,
the toxicology screens,
the forensics, everything.
There were pill fragments found
in the stomach contents,
and there were large amounts.
There was no struggle,
there were no bruises
that indicated
that somebody
was holding her down.
It was very clear
that she wasn't raped,
and there was no evidence
that she was killed.
It was clearly suicide.
Myra and her team of sleuths
took their investigation live
with a blog called
Truth for Morgan.
With every new hit,
the page moves closer
and closer to the top
of the search results
for Keenan's name,
displacing the rumors
with cold, hard facts.
We weren't trying to say
that Toni was a bad person.
We weren't trying
to smear Morgan's name.
We just wanted to make sure
that everybody
who was gonna form
an opinion about this,
and especially about Keenan,
had all the facts.
People said, you know,
"How can you protect a killer?"
I'm not protecting a killer.
I'm protecting an innocent man.
I've never harmed a soul.
I mean, who was hurt
by what I did?
I'll never see my family again,
I'll never see
my friends again.
I'll never return
to my home country again.
This is a one-way trip.
Five years into his exile,
Commander X is 52 and homeless,
panhandling to pay for food.
His DDoS against Santa Cruz
didn't change the law,
but he's still fighting,
helping launch hacktivist ops
in Ferguson, South America,
and the Middle East.
I don't like fuckin' bullies,
and I don't think I ever will.
I'm taking advantage
of every moment of liberty
that I stole from them,
to try to do what I set out
to do in the first place,
which is bring change
to the world.
Any time we chat,
Commander X and myself,
I have to explain to him...
Listen, you have to return
to the jurisdiction,
and you have to face
these charges.
To which his reply is,
"Yeah, lawyer boy,
you do my time."
Even if you don't know who he is
or what he does
or even agree
with him as a person,
Commander X is trying
to make your life better.
When one person fights
for personal freedom
against government oppression,
that benefits us all.
The irony is
that we started off
looking for justice for Morgan,
and found injustice instead.
Our mission was just
to lay out the facts,
and to hopefully help clear
this boy's name.
I've never spoken to Keenan,
but I hope we succeeded
in what we attempted to do.
Having somebody on the outside
that doesn't know you
standing up for you
really helped me feel
that not everybody
in the world hates you.
In the real world,
the exonerated might walk free,
but online, old links die hard.
You're sentenced to your
search results for life.
I've thought about
moving away quite a few times,
to a different state where there
won't be anybody that knows me.
But really, you can't run away.
They still have
Internet in Oregon.
It matters to me
what people think about me.
I want people to know
that I'm not some monster.
Good cast.
But it is a free world, you can
believe whatever you want.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org